DOC-6146: Archive Service updates (#1889)
corda/corda-docs-portal: content/en/tools/archiving-service/archiving-service-index.md

section_menu: tools
menu:
  tools:
    name: Archive Service
    weight: 700
    identifier: tools-archiving
tags:
- archive
- backup schema
- archive install
- archive transactions

title: Archive Service
---

# Archive Service

The Archive Service allows you to make an archive of transactions and attachments from the Corda vault which can no longer
be part of an ongoing or new transaction flow. This can reduce pressure on your node's database, and declutter your vault.

You can use Archive service commands to mark archivable items in your vault, archive them, and restore transactions from the archive when necessary.

{{< note >}}
Due to its in-memory design, the Archive Service is most effective and efficient for smaller ledgers & frequent archiving events. For scenarios that don't fit these constraints, you should consider building your required archiving logic within the application itself. This introduction includes advice on [making your CorDapps archive-friendly](#making-archive-friendly-cordapps).
{{< /note >}}

The Archive Service consists of the following:

> * [Archive Service CorDapp](#archive-service-cordapp)- which contains the necessary flows to mark and archive transactions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Archive Service CorDapp](#archive-service-cordapp) - contains the necessary flows to mark and archive transactions.
```

> * [Archive Service Client Library](archive-library.md) - which provides programmatic access to the archive service, and [exposes relevant APIs](archiving-apis.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Archive Service Client Library](archive-library.md) - provides programmatic access to the archive service, and [exposes relevant APIs](archiving-apis.md).
* ```

> * [Archive Service Command Line Interface](archiving-cli.md) - which allows you to perform archiving tasks from the command line.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Archive Service Command Line Interface](archiving-cli.md) - allows you to perform archiving tasks from the command line.
```

> It also makes use of the [Application Entity Manager](app-entity-manager.md) - which allows CorDapps to access off-ledger databases using JPA APIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It also makes use of the [Application Entity Manager](app-entity-manager.md), which allows CorDapps to access off-ledger databases using JPA APIs.
```

In order to improve speed and memory usage when using the Archiving Service, JVM heap memory of the node can be increased to handle larger ledgers. In addition, the `transactionReaderPoolSize` config parameter can be adjusted upwards to use more CPU threads to increase speed, and increase the number of CPUs or cores a node has access to.

{{< /note >}}

## What can be archived

The Archive Service has commands you can use to identify which transactions can be archived in your vault. A fully consumed transaction or attachment will be marked as archivable when:

* There are no unconsumed transactions in the same LedgerGraph component. A LedgerGraph component is a connected group of transactions, represented as a Direct Acrylic Graph (DAG) in the [LedgerGraph service]({{< relref "../ledgergraph/ledgergraph-index.md" >}}).
* The transaction is not also referenced by another LedgerGraph component that contains unconsumed transactions.
* The attachment itself is not a contract attachment.

Archivable and non-archivable LedgerGraph components:

> ![Archivable and non-archivable LG components](archivable-dags.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion

* ![Archivable and non-archivable LG components](archivable-dags.png)

```

## When you can archive

Once the Archive Service has marked a transaction or attachment as archivable, you can safely archive it anytime without risk to any other member of your network. You do not need to inform other members of the network, and your archiving action will not affect their ledger.

### Archiving and Collaborative Recovery

> The [Collaborative Recovery CorDapp LedgerSync V1.2.1]({{< relref "../../platform/corda/4.9/enterprise/node/collaborative-recovery/ledger-sync.md" >}}) has been introduced for compatibility with the Archive Service. If you or anyone on your network uses Collaborative Recovery to recover data after a disaster scenario, archived transactions in any nodes on the network are marked as such. This means they do not appear to be 'lost' or 'missing' data and will not be recovered automatically in the recovery process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Collaborative Recovery CorDapp LedgerSync V1.2.1]({{< relref "../../platform/corda/4.9/enterprise/node/collaborative-recovery/ledger-sync.md" >}}) has been introduced for compatibility with the Archive Service. If you or anyone on your network uses Collaborative Recovery to recover data after a disaster scenario, archived transactions in any nodes on the network are marked as such. This means that they do not appear to be 'lost' or 'missing' data and will not be recovered automatically in the recovery process.
```

```

The Archive Service configuration file provides the database connection details used by the service to
record a temporary snapshot of the vault data.

The following are keys for configuring the Archive Service:

* `generator` - SQL generator, defaults to vault's database type.
* `driver` - JDBC driver, defaults to vault's database driver.
* `source.schema` - Vault schema name, defaults to vault database schema.
* `target.schema` - Backup schema name, optional, indicates that a backup schema should be created.
* `target.url` - Backup schema archive URL, required if a backup schema is used.
* `target.user` - Backup schema archive database user, required if a backup schema is used.
* `target.password` - Backup schema archive database password, required if a backup schema is used.

Passwords can be obfuscated using Corda's Config Obfuscator tool.

The following is a sample configuration file:

```text
generator: PostgresGenerator
driver: "org.postgresql.Driver"

target: {
    url: "jdbc:postgresql:postgres"
    user: "archive"
    password: "<{HNtZpbrOGM6GhYA6foh5PCCBanUtaebCjauKL8ur9EE=:PolqmEJ7JOM+Sqj3ZNAE+Ew9bqG1wVE=}>"
    schema: "archive"
}
```

## Using the backup schema

> you can configure the archiving process to create a temporary snapshot image of the archivable transactions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure the archiving process to create a temporary snapshot image of the archivable transactions
```

and attachments from your Corda vault on a backup schema within the same database. This snapshot can then be used
to restore the vault should the database fail during the archiving operation.

For the backup schema to work, the Corda vault schema and the archive schema must reside on the same database but be
managed by different schema owners.

The Archive Service uses a separate JPA entity manager factory to manage the
archive schema and copy data from the Corda schema to the archive schema.

To create a copy of the vault on the backup schema the backup schema owner must have
`SELECT` rights to the vault schema.

To restore the vault from a copy on the backup schema the backup schema owner must

> either have `INSERT` rights to the vault schema or the `restore-snapshot` command has to be executed with the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
either have `INSERT` rights to the vault schema or the `restore-snapshot` command must be executed with the
```

`--record` option.

The `--record` option allows the user to capture the SQL to a file so that it can be
executed by a database administrator who has the sufficient rights.

The following sections contain sample SQL statements needed for creating a backup schema user.
In these examples the backup schema is called `archive` and the vault schema is `corda`.

### Postgres

The following DDL statements can be used to create a backup schema user `archive`:

```
create user archive password 'archive';
create schema archive AUTHORIZATION archive;
grant usage on schema corda to archive;
grant select on all tables in schema corda to archive;
grant insert on all tables in schema corda to archive;
```

### Oracle

> The following DDL statements can be used to create a backup schema user `archive`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the following DDL statements to create a backup schema user `archive`:
```

```
create user archive identified by archive2 DEFAULT TABLESPACE users QUOTA unlimited ON users;
grant CONNECT, RESOURCE to archive;
```

Oracle does not have a single grant option to provide rights to all the tables in a schema.

> This means that rights have to be current on a per table basis.

Reviewer: Not sure "current" is correct here?

Author: I didn't write this content so not sure either. Leaving as is.

```
grant select, insert on corda.NODE_TRANSACTIONS to archive;
```

### MSSQL
The following DDL statements can be used to create a backup schema user `archive`:

```
create login archive with password = 'Archive123';
create schema archive;
create user archive for login archive with default_schema = archive;
grant SELECT, INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE, VIEW DEFINITION, ALTER, REFERENCES on schema::archive TO archive;
grant CREATE TABLE to archive;
grant CREATE VIEW to archive;
grant SELECT on schema ::corda to archive;
grant INSERT on schema ::corda to archive;
```

## Restarting the node

It is sometimes necessary to restart the node when carrying out an archiving job.

> You need to restart the node:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need to restart the node in the following circumstances:
```

The exporters to be applied can be given on the command line to the `export-snapshot` command
or recorded in the CorDapp configuration file.

```
exporter: {
    exporters: [
        "ZippedFileExporter",
        "QueryableStateFileExporter"
    ]
}
```

By default no exporters are applied.

Each exporter has its own configuration requirements, which it takes either from the HOCON file given on the
command line or from the CorDapp configuration file.

Custom exporters can be implemented for individual archive solutions.
For more details see the [Archive Service Library documentation](archive-library.md).

## Queryable state tables

Queryable state tables can be exported to CSV format by listing the tables by listing the tables in
the configuration file under the property `queryableTables`.

```text
queryableTables: [
    "LOAN_STATES"
]
```

The property can be added to the Archive Service CorDapp configuration file, or passed within the
`create-snapshot` command configuration.

A suitable exporter, such as `QueryableStateFileExporter`, must also be listed on the command line to `export-snapshot`.

## Additional tables

> Archive Service will automatically detect transaction and attachment tables which use the columns

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Archive Service automatically detects transaction and attachment tables that use the columns
```

`TRANSACTION_ID` or `ATT_ID` within the vault schema and include them in the archive process.

Additional transaction and attachment tables which use different column names can be registered using the

> properties `additionalTransactionTables` and `additionalAttachmentTables` with the following format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
properties `additionalTransactionTables` and `additionalAttachmentTables` with the following format:
```
